# ASM

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. Intro](#1-intro)
  - [1.1. ASM Site](#11-asm-site)
  - [1.2. ASM的目标](#12-asm%e7%9a%84%e7%9b%ae%e6%a0%87)
  - [1.3. ASM的特点](#13-asm%e7%9a%84%e7%89%b9%e7%82%b9)
  - [1.4. ASM in JDK](#14-asm-in-jdk)
- [2. Model](#2-model)
- [3. Organization](#3-organization)

<!-- /TOC -->

## 1. Intro

### 1.1. ASM Site

- [ASM](https://asm.ow2.io/)
- [ASM 6 Developer Guide](https://asm.ow2.io/developer-guide.html)

### 1.2. ASM的目标

**Program analysis**, **generation** and **transformation** are useful techniques. All these techniques can be used for any programming language, but this is more or less easy to do, depending on the language.

- **Program analysis**, which can range from a simple syntaxic parsing to a full semantic analysis, can be used to find potential bugs in applications, to detect unused code, to reverse engineer code, etc.
- **Program generation** is used in compilers. This include traditional compilers, but also stub or skeleton compilers used for distributed programming, Just in Time compilers, etc.
- **Program transformation** can be used to optimize or obfuscate programs, to insert debugging or performance monitoring code into applications, for aspect oriented programming, etc.

In the case of **Java** they can be used on **Java source code** or on **compiled Java classes**.

> 作者有话说：修改Java代码的两种方式，一种方式是修改Java source code，另一种方式是修改compiled Java classes。

The ASM library was designed to work on **compiled Java classes**.

> 作者有话说：The ASM library修改的目标，不是Java source code，而是compiled Java classes。

**One of the advantages** of working on **compiled classes** is that, obviously, the source code is not needed. Program transformations can therefore be used on any applications, including closed source and commercial ones.

**Another advantage** of working on **compiled code** is that it becomes possible to analyze, generate or transform classes at runtime, just before they are loaded into the Java Virtual Machine (generating and compiling source code at runtime is possible, but this is really slow and requires a full Java compiler).

### 1.3. ASM的特点

It was designed to be as **fast** and as **small** as possible.

> ASM的两个特点：fast和small。

Being as **fast** as possible is important in order not to slow down too much the applications that use ASM at runtime, for dynamic class generation or transformation.

And being as **small** as possible is important in order to be used in memory constrained environments, and to avoid bloating the size of small applications or libraries using ASM.

### 1.4. ASM in JDK

file: `$JDK_HOME/lib/rt.jar`

```txt
jdk.internal.org.objectweb.asm.ClassReader
```

## 2. Model

The ASM library provides **two APIs** for generating and transforming compiled classes: **the core API** provides an **event based** representation of classes, while **the tree API** provides an **object based** representation.

> 作者有话说：ASM提供了两套API，即the core API和the tree API；the core API又称为event based API，而the tree API又称为object based API。

The **object based API** is built on top of the **event based API**.

> 作者有话说：这里是讲两套API的关系，event based API是基础层面的，而object based API是高层面的；换句话说，the core API是基础层面的，而the tree API是更高一个层面的。

These **two APIs** can be compared to the Simple API for XML (**SAX**) and Document Object Model (**DOM**) APIs for XML documents: the **event based API** is similar to **SAX**, while the **object based API** is similar to **DOM**. The **object based API** is built on top of the **event based one**, like **DOM** can be provided on top of **SAX**.

> 作者有话说：这里是通过对比的方式来进一步说明两套API的关系。

ASM provides both APIs because there is no best API. Indeed each API has its own advantages and drawbacks.

> 作者有话说：两套API有各自的适用场景。

- The **event based API** is faster and requires less memory than the **object based API**, since there is no need to create and store in memory a tree of objects representing the class (the same difference also exists between SAX and DOM).
- However implementing class transformations can be more difficult with the **event based API**, since only one element of the class is available at any given time (the element that corresponds to the current event), while the whole class is available in memory with the **object based API**.

## 3. Organization

The ASM library is organized in several packages that are distributed in several `jar` files:

- the `org.objectweb.asm` and `org.objectweb.asm.signature` packages define the **event based API** and provide the class parser and writer components. They are contained in the `asm.jar` archive.
- the `org.objectweb.asm.util` package, in the `asm-util.jar` archive, provides various tools based on **the core API** that can be used during the development and debuging of ASM applications.
- the `org.objectweb.asm.commons` package provides several useful predefined class transformers, mostly based on **the core API**. It is contained in the `asm-commons.jar` archive.
- the `org.objectweb.asm.tree` package, in the `asm-tree.jar` archive, defines **the object based API**, and provides tools to convert between the event based and the object based representations.
- the `org.objectweb.asm.tree.analysis` package provides a class analysis framework and several predefined class analyzers, based on **the tree API**. It is contained in the `asm-analysis.jar` archive.

This document is organized in **two parts**. **The first part** covers **the core API**, i.e. the `asm`, `asm-util` and `asm-commons` archives. **The second part** covers **the tree API**, i.e. the `asm-tree` and `asm-analysis` archives. Each part contains at least one chapter for the API related to classes, one chapter for the API related to methods, and one chapter for the API related to annotations, generic types, etc. Each chapter covers the programming interfaces as well as the related tools and predefined components.
