# Adding class members

Instead of **forwarding fewer calls** than you receive, you can **“forward” more**, which has **the effect of adding class elements**.

**The new calls** can be inserted at several places **between** the original method calls, provided that the order in which the various `visitXxx` methods must be called is respected.

For instance, if you want to **add a field** to a class you have to insert a new call to `visitField` between the original method calls, and you must put this new call in one of the visit method of your class adapter. You cannot do this in the `visit` method「第一次“不行”」, for example, because this may result in a call to `visitField` followed by `visitSource`, `visitOuterClass`, `visitAnnotation` or `visitAttribute`, which is not valid. You cannot put this new call in the `visitSource`, `visitOuterClass`, `visitAnnotation` or `visitAttribute` methods「第二次“不行”」, for the same reason. The only possibilities are the `visitInnerClass`, `visitField`, `visitMethod` or `visitEnd` methods「第三次“行”」.

If you put the new call in the `visitEnd` method the field will always be added (unless you add explicit conditions), because this method is always called. If you put it in `visitField` or `visitMethod`, **several** fields will be added: one per field or method in the original class. **Both solutions can make sense; it depends on what you need**. For instance you can **add a single counter field to count the invocations on an object**, or **one counter per method, to count the invocations of each method separately**.

```java
import org.objectweb.asm.ClassVisitor;
import org.objectweb.asm.FieldVisitor;
import org.objectweb.asm.Opcodes;

public class AddFieldAdapter extends ClassVisitor {
    private int fieldAccess;
    private String fieldName;
    private String fieldDesc;
    private boolean isFieldPresent;

    public AddFieldAdapter(ClassVisitor classVisitor, int fieldAccess, String fieldName, String fieldDesc) {
        super(Opcodes.ASM6, classVisitor);
        this.fieldAccess = fieldAccess;
        this.fieldName = fieldName;
        this.fieldDesc = fieldDesc;
    }

    @Override
    public FieldVisitor visitField(int access, String name, String descriptor, String signature, Object value) {
        if(name.equals(fieldName)) {
            isFieldPresent = true;
        }
        return super.visitField(access, name, descriptor, signature, value);
    }

    @Override
    public void visitEnd() {
        if(!isFieldPresent) {
            FieldVisitor fv = cv.visitField(fieldAccess, fieldName, fieldDesc, null, null);
            if (fv != null) {
                fv.visitEnd();
            }
        }
        super.visitEnd();
    }
}
```

The field is added in the `visitEnd` method. The `visitField` method is not overridden to modify existing fields or to remove a field, but just to detect if the field we want to add already exists or not. Note the `fv != null` test in the `visitEnd` method, before calling `fv.visitEnd()`: this is because, as we have seen in the previous section, a class visitor can return `null` in `visitField`.
