# Util

## 依赖结构

`asm-util` package的依赖关系

```txt
asm-util-->asm-analysis-->asm-tree-->asm
```

## 类

In addition to the `ClassVisitor` class and to the related `ClassReader` and `ClassWriter` components, ASM provides, in the `org.objectweb.asm.util` package, several tools that can be useful during **the development** of **a class generator** or **adapter**, but which are **not needed at runtime**. ASM also provides **a utility class** for manipulating **internal names**, **type descriptors** and **method descriptors** at **runtime**.

上面这段话，将`ClassVisitor`作为class，将`ClassReader` and `ClassWriter`作为components。

- class
  - ClassVisitor
- components
  - ClassReader
  - ClassWriter

### Type

**The ASM API** exposes **Java types** as they are stored in compiled classes, i.e. as **internal names** or **type descriptors**. It would be possible to expose them as they appear in source code, to make code more readable. But this would require systematic conversions between the two representations in `ClassReader` and `ClassWriter`, which would degrade performances. This is why ASM does not transparently transform **internal names** and **type descriptors** to their equivalent source code form. However it provides the `org.objectweb.asm.Type` class for doing that manually when necessary.

**A Type object** represents a **Java type**, and can be constructed either from **a type descriptor** or from **a `Class` object**. The `Type` class also contains **static variables** representing the **primitive types**. For example `Type.INT_TYPE` is the `Type` object representing the `int` type.

> 如何构建`Type`对象

The `getInternalName` method returns the **internal name** of a `Type`. For example `Type.getType(String.class).getInternalName()` gives the internal name of the `String` class, i.e. "`java/lang/String`". This method must be used only for **class** or **interface** types.

> 针对Class或Interface，有`getInternalName()`方法

The `getDescriptor` method returns the descriptor of a `Type`. So, for example, instead of using "Ljava/lang/String;" in your code you could use `Type.getType(String.class).getDescriptor()`. Or, instead of using `I`, you could use `Type.INT_TYPE.getDescriptor()`.

> 针对变量（例如Field），有`getDescriptor()`方法

A `Type` object can also represent **a method type**. Such objects can be constructed either from **a method descriptor** or from **a `Method` object**. The `getDescriptor` method then returns the **method descriptor** corresponding to this type. In addition, the `getArgumentTypes` and `getReturnType` methods can be used to get the `Type` objects corresponding to **the argument types** and **return types** of a method. For instance `Type.getArgumentTypes("(I)V")` returns **an array** containing the single element `Type.INT_TYPE`. Similarly, a call to `Type.getReturnType("(I)V")` returns the `Type.VOID_TYPE` object.

> 针对方法（Method），有`getArgumentTypes()`和`getReturnType()`方法

### TraceClassVisitor

In order to check that **a generated or transformed class** is conforming to what you expect, **the byte array** returned by a `ClassWriter` is not really helpful because it is unreadable by humans. **A textual representation** would be much easier to use. This is what the `TraceClassVisitor` class provides. This class, as its name implies, extends the `ClassVisitor` class, and builds **a textual representation of the visited class**. So, instead of using a `ClassWriter` to generate your classes, you can use a `TraceClassVisitor`, in order to get **a readable trace of what is actually generated**. Or, even better, you can use both at the same time. Indeed the `TraceClassVisitor` can, in addition to its default behavior, delegate all calls to its methods to another visitor, for instance a `ClassWriter`:

```java
ClassWriter cw = new ClassWriter(0);
TraceClassVisitor cv = new TraceClassVisitor(cw, printWriter);
cv.visit(...);
...
cv.visitEnd();
byte b[] = cw.toByteArray();
```

This code creates a `TraceClassVisitor` that **delegates all the calls** it receives to `cw`, and that **prints a textual representation** of these calls to `printWriter`.

Note that you can use a `TraceClassVisitor` at any point in **a generation or transformation chain**, and not only just before a `ClassWriter`, in order to see what happens at this point in the chain. Note also that **the textual representation of classes** generated by this adapter can be used to compare **classes** easily, with `String.equals()`.

### CheckClassAdapter

The `ClassWriter` class does **not check** that its methods are called **in the appropriate order** and **with valid arguments**. It is therefore possible to generate invalid classes that will be rejected by the Java Virtual Machine verifier<sub><font color="red">【注：这里是提出问题。】</font></sub>. In order to detect some of these errors as soon as possible, it is possible to use the `CheckClassAdapter` class<sub><font color="red">【注：这里是说明问题的解决方法，即使用CheckClassAdapter。】</font></sub>. Like `TraceClassVisitor`, this class extends the `ClassVisitor` class, and **delegates all calls** to its method to another `ClassVisitor`, for instance a `TraceClassVisitor` or a `ClassWriter`<sub><font color="red">【注：这里是讲TraceClassVisitor和CheckClassAdapter两者的相同之处。】</font></sub>. However, instead of **printing a textual representation of the visited class**, this class **checks that its methods** are called in **the appropriate order**, and **with valid arguments**, before delegating to **the next visitor**<sub><font color="red">【注：这里是对TraceClassVisitor和CheckClassAdapter进行对比，来说明差异】</font></sub>. In case of errors an `IllegalStateException` or `IllegalArgumentException` is thrown<sub><font color="red">【注：出现error时，会抛出Exception】</font></sub>.

In order to check a class, print a textual representation of this class, and finally create a byte array representation, you should use something like:

```java
ClassWriter cw = new ClassWriter(0);
TraceClassVisitor tcv = new TraceClassVisitor(cw, printWriter);
CheckClassAdapter cv = new CheckClassAdapter(tcv);
cv.visit(...);
...
cv.visitEnd();
byte b[] = cw.toByteArray();
```

Note that if you chain these **class visitors** in **a different order**, the operations **they perform will be done in a different order too**<sub>【注：class visitors顺序的重要性】</sub>. For example, with the following code, the **checks** will take place after the **trace**:

```java
ClassWriter cw = new ClassWriter(0);
CheckClassAdapter cca = new CheckClassAdapter(cw);
TraceClassVisitor cv = new TraceClassVisitor(cca, printWriter);
```

Like with `TraceClassVisitor`, you can use a `CheckClassAdapter` at any point in **a generation or transformation chain**<sub>【注：这里的主要目的是告诉我们“写代码时的灵活性”】</sub>, and not only just before a `ClassWriter`, in order to check classes at this point in the chain.

### ASMifier

This class provides **an alternative backend** for the `TraceClassVisitor` tool (which by default uses a `Textifier` backend, producing the kind of output shown above). **This backend** makes each method of the `TraceClassVisitor` class print the Java code that was used to call it. For instance calling the `visitEnd()` method prints `cv.visitEnd();`. The result is that, when a `TraceClassVisitor` visitor with an `ASMifier` backend visits a class, it prints **the source code** to **generate this class with ASM**. This is useful if you use this visitor to visit an already existing class. For instance, if you don’t know how to generate some compiled class with ASM, write the corresponding source code, compile it with javac, and visit the compiled class with the `ASMifier`. You will get the ASM code to generate this compiled class!

The `ASMifier` class can be used from the command line. For example using:

```txt
java -classpath asm.jar:asm-util.jar \
    org.objectweb.asm.util.ASMifier \
    java.lang.Runnable
```

- `org.objectweb.asm.util.Printer`抽象父类
  - `org.objectweb.asm.util.ASMifier`子类
  - `org.objectweb.asm.util.Textifier`子类

